__NOTOC__
== Eclipse GEF Image Export Plugin ==
This Eclipse plugin adds a entry in the Export Wizard (File &rarr; Export &rarr; General) to export images from GEF based editor diagrams.

== Installation ==

An update site is provided to the install the imageexport plugin.
Follow these steps for easy installation:
* Open ''Instal New Software'' dialog (Help &rarr; Install New Software...)
* ''Add'' a new update site
** Fill in any ''name'' (eg ''ImageExport'')
** Fill http://veger.github.com/eclipse-gef-imageexport in the ''location'' field
* Select the newly created location
* Select at least ''Eclipse GEF ImageExport Plugin'' and eventually other plugin to get additional image formats
* Finish the installation by clicking ''Next'' a couple of times (and accepting the license)

== Using the plugin ==

To export a GEF diagram:
* Make sure that a GEF based editor is active
* Open File &rarr; Export &rarr; General &rarr; ImageExport
* Choose a filetype from the available image types (note: depending on the installed ImageExport plugins more type might be available)
* Choose a location to save the image
* Click Finish

The exported image will (exactly) fit the contents of the editor, scaled at 100%.
If larger images are required it is adviced to export as SVG (using the ImageExport.SVG plugin) and scale in another program to the desired scale. And eventually reexport to a bitmap if required.

== Developer information ==
To add new formats
* Create a new plugin
* In the plugin.xml editor add a [http://github.com/veger/eclipse-gef-imageexport/blob/master/nl.utwente.ce.imageexport/schema/ExportFormatProvider.exsd nl.utwente.ce.imageexport.exportFormatProvider extension]
* Add a new iamge_format and fill in the required fields
* The provided class should implement the [http://github.com/veger/eclipse-gef-imageexport/blob/master/nl.utwente.ce.imageexport/src/nl/utwente/ce/imageexport/IImageFormatProvider.java IImageFormatProvider] interface.

The ImageExport.SVG should be easy enough to understand how this is done.
To see how to reuse the exporting class for multiple formats, the: ImageExport plugin itself is a nice example as one class is used for both PNG and JPEG images.

If you have added a new image format or improved one of the existing plugins, let me know and I am happy to add the improvements to this repository.

== License ==
The ImageExport plugins are licensed under GPL v3. See LICENSE file for more information.
